### Class Notes 10th October 2023

### Tables Attributes & Properties

1. frame
2. rules
3. border
4. width
5. height
6. align
7. valign
8. cellspacing
9. cellpadding
10. bgcolor
11. background
12. rowspan
13. colspan

Note: You can define row and colspan only for <td> or <th> elements.

        <td rowspan="7"> </td>
        <th colspan="4"> </th>


 - You can use tables for designing page layout, but it is not recommended for latest version of HTML websites. If you are using HTML 4 in a project then layout can be designed using tables.


Ex: Nested Tables - Always keep a nested table inside <td> element.

     Forms in HTML
- Form provides an UI from where user can interact with the data in application.
- It enables CRUD operations on data.
        C    Create
        R    Read
        U    Update
        D    Delete
- Form provides inerface with a set of elements like
        button
        textbox
        checkbox
        radio
        listbox
        dropdown etc..

- Form is technically a "Generic" container, which can submit or reset data.
- It is defined by using <form> element.
- If you have to submit or reset data dynamically then it must be through <form> container.

Syntax:
    <form>
        ... form elements...
    </form>    

Form Attributes:
1. id                ]
2. name            ]    used as reference for form in css and javascript.
3. class            ]

4. method        :     It defines the actions to perform.
                    Every form can have 2 methods
                        a) GET
                        b) POST

FAQ: What is GET ?
Ans : It is a request method used by form to fetch data from server.

        <form  method="get">

FAQ: What is POST?
Ans : It is a request method used by form to submit data to server.

        <form method="post">

FAQ: What is the default method for form?
Ans : GET


FAQ: Can we submit data to server on GET request?
Ans :  Yes. But not recommended.

GET Request:
- It is used to fetch data.
- It can submit data but not recommended.
- It submits data into URL as querystring.
- Every user can view the data.
- It is not safe.
- It is easy to hack your data.
- It is stored in browser logs.
- It can be bookmarked.
- You can't submit complex data ie. binary type data
- You can submit only 2048 chars.
- It can cache the data.
- It saves round trips.

POST Request
- It is used to submit data.
- It submits data as form body
- It is not visible to users
- It is safe when compared to get
- It is not stored in browser logs
- It can't be bookmarked
- You can submit complex data.
- There is no limit for data.
- It can't cache the data.