### Class Notes 13th October 2023



### 14. Pattern

### Built-In expressions

(?=.*[A-Z])   - Atleast one Upper case Letter
(?=.*[a-z])   - Atleast one Lower case Letter
(?=.*[0-9])   - Atleast one digit
(?=.*[!@#$%^&*])   - Atleast one special character


pattern="(?=.*[A-Z])(?=.*[a-z])(?=.*[0-9])(?=.*[@#$%^&*])[A-Za-z0-9@#$%^&]{4,15}"

Expression for atleast 1 Capital,1 small , 1 number and 1 special character in the user Input.

--------------
### Password Input
Similar to text input except characters are masked with *
Can use all attributes of text input except list

### Instructer's Notes

Built in Expressions

    (?=.*[A-Z])        Atleast one upper case letter
    (?=.*[a-z])        Atleast one lower case letter
    (?=.*[0-9])        Atleast one numeric
    (?=.*[!@#$&])        Atleast one special character

Query: Write a pattern for validating user id 4 to 15 chars alpha numeric with at least one upper case letter.

    <input type="text"  pattern="(?=.*[A-Z])[a-zA-Z0-9]{4,15}">

Query: Write a patter for User Id 4 to 15 chars alpha numeric & special chars with atleast one uppercase letter, number and special char.
        [1 upper case letter, 1 number , 1 special is mandatory]


        pattern="(?=.*[A-Z])(?=*.[0-9])(?=.*\W)[a-zA-Z0-9\W]{4,15}"


                        Password Input
- It is similar to textbox but will mask the characters with "*".
- All attributes are same, except that you can't use "list" for password.

Syntax:
<input type="password"  name="Password" required  pattern="(?=.*[A-Z])\w{4,15}">

                        Number Input

- It allows only numeric type characters.
- How ever it can submit only a number.

Syntax:
    <input type="number" name="age">
    [e => is an exponent character]
   
            2e3 = 2000   [ 2 x 10(3) ]

- You can define range for values using "min & max" attributes.

    <input type="number"  name="age" min="15"  max="30"  value="22">

- You can define input step value.
   
    <input type="number" name="rate"  min="10.45" max="15.45" step="0.01" value="10.45">

                        Range Input
- It is similar to number, but will display a slider instead of numeric up-down control.

Syntax:
    <input type="range"  min="1" max="100" value="50"  step="5"  name="price">

                        Color Input
- It can display a color picker.
- It uses 6 chars hexa decimal value for default color.

Syntax:
    <input type="color"  name="pick-color"  value="#ff0000">

                         Email Input

- It validates email format.

Syntax:
    <input type="email"  name="Email" required  placeholder="your email">

- It verifies only the occurance of "@" in input string.

                        URL Input
- It validates URL format.
- Every URL must start with protocol and have a domain extention.

            www.amazon.in        => invalid url
            https://www.amazon.in    => valid

Syntax:
    <input type="url"  name="address">

                         Date & Time Input

- It allows to input only date or time values.
- The type includes
            date
            datetime-local
            time
            month
            year
            week

Syntax:
    <input type="date | time | month ...">

- It will not allow to select a range of dates.
- You can restrict the date or time range by using "min" & "max" attributes.
- The date format for developer is "yy-mm-dd".

Syntax:
    <input type="date"  min="2023-10-13"   max="2023-11-12" name="dept">

                          File Input
- It will display a file browser.
- It allows to select files from your device.

Syntax:
    <input type="file" name="photo">

- You can set filter for selection using "accept" attribute.

Syntax:
    <input type="file" name="photo"  accept=".jpg, .png, .gif">
   
- You can enable selection of multiple files by using "multiple" attribute

Syntax:
    <input type="file" name="photos" accept=".jpg"  multiple>


