### Class Notes 10th November 2023

### JavaScript Features, Issues and Integration

- Mocha
- Live Script
- JavaScript
- In early 2000 Netscape stopped its services and handed over JavaScript to a community "ECMA".
- ECMA started versions for JavaScript by name
  ECMA Script 2015 [ES5]
  2016 [ES6]
  ........
  2022 [ES2022]

        https://ecma-international.org/               => JavaScript
        https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/          => Help Documents
        https://eslint.org/                        => Language Analyzer

FAQ: How to check the status of JavaScript in browser?
Ans : By using HTML element <noscript>.

Syntax:
<body>
<noscript> please enable JavaScript on your browser </noscript>
</body>

Issues with JavaScript:

- JavaScript is not a strongly typed language.

        var x = 10;        // x is integer
        x = "John";        // valid

- JavaScript is not implicitly strictly typed language.

FAQ: What is difference between strongly typed and strictly typed?
Ans : Strongly typed is verifying data type
Strictly typed is verifying programming rules.

- JavaScript is not an OOP language, It supports only few features of OOP.

- Extensibility Issues

- Code Level Security Issues

What is Solution?

- TypeScript

Developer writes in Typescript => Transcompiled into => JavaScript => Browser

What is a script?

- A script is bound to the actions in a presentation.
- It defines the actions to performs and sets restrictions for actions to perform.
- JavaScript is a script to control HTML and CSS presentations in browser.

Integrating JavaScript Client Side:

1. Inline JavaScript
2. Embedded JavaScript
3. External File

Inline JavaScript

- The JavaScript actions and functions are defined for every element individually.
- It is faster in interactions.
- However it is not reusable.

Syntax:
<button onclick="window.print()"> Print </button>

Ex:

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Ticket</h1>
    <button onclick="window.print()">Print</button>
</body>
</html>

Embedded JavaScript

- You can embed JavaScript functions into page by using <script> container.
- You can embed in <head> or <body> sections.
- So that you can reuse the functions across various elements.
- However it is slower when compared to Inline and can't reuse across pages.

Syntax:
<script>
function PrintPage()
{
window.print();
}
</script>
<button  onclick="PrintPage()"> Print </button>

Ex:

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
    <script>
        function PrintPage(){
            window.print();
        }
    </script>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Ticket</h1>
    <button onclick="PrintPage()">Print</button>
</body>
</html>

- JavaScript MIME type is defined by using "text/javascript".
- MIME type may change according to JavaScript compiler and module system.

Syntax:
<script type="text/javascript"> => JavaScript Interpreter in browser
</script>

    <script type="text/babel">    => Babel is a JavaScript compiler
    </script>

    <script type="module">        => CommonJS, RequireJS, UMD, AMD, ESModule..
    </script>

Ex:

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Document</title>
    <script type="text/javascript">
        function PrintPage(){
            window.print();
        }
    </script>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Ticket</h1>
    <button onclick="PrintPage()">Print</button>
</body>
</html>
