### Class Notes 16th November 2023

### Variables in JavaScript

Summary
- Form Input
- JavaScript Language

                          Variables in JavaScript
- Variables are storage locations in memory, where you can store a value and use it as a part of any expression.

- Variable configuration comprises of 3 phases

        a) Declaration
        b) Assignment
        c) Initialization

- Declaring is the process of configuring variable name and its specifications.

        var  price;
       
   Variable in JavaScript can be declared using  "var, let or const".

        var price;
        let price;
        const price;        [const will not allow only declaration]

- Assignment is the process of storing a value into reference variable after declaration.

        var price;            => declaring
        price = 30000.44;    => assigning

- Initialization is the process of configuring a value into variable at the time of declaring.

        var price = 30000.44;  => Initializaiton
        price = 35000.45;          => Assignment

Note: If value is not initialized or assigned into variable, then by default it comprises of
     "undefined" as value type.

- JavaScript allows to assign value directly without declaring a variable if it is not configured with strict mode.

FAQ: Can we use variable without declaring?
Ans:  Yes. If javascript is not in strict mode.

FAQ:  What is difference between var, let and const?
Ans:

var :
- It is used to configure a function scope variable.
- You can declare in any block of a function and access from any another block in function.
- It allows declaring, assignment and initialization.

Ex:
<script>
    function demo()
    {
        var x;                  // declaring
        x = 10;                 // assigning
        if(x==10)
        {
            var y = 20;         // initialization
        }
        document.write("X=" + x + "<br>" + "Y=" + y);
    }
    demo();
</script>

- It allows shadowing.
- Shadowing is the process of re-declaring or re-initializing same name identifier with in the given scope.

        {
          var y = 20;
          var y = 30;            // shadowing
        }
       
Ex:
<script>
    function demo()
    {
        var x;                  // declaring
        x = 10;                 // assigning
        if(x==10)
        {
            var y = 20;         // initialization
            y = 30;             // assignment
            var y = 40;         // shadowing
        }
        document.write("X=" + x + "<br>" + "Y=" + y);
    }
    demo();
</script>

- It allows hoisting.
- Hoisting is the process of configuring a variable declaration or intialization after using the variable. There is no order dependency for declaring and using.

Syntax:
    <script>
        "use strict";
         x = 10;
         document.write("x=" + x);
         var x;        // hoisting
    </script>

let :
- It is used to configure a block scope variable.
- Block scope allows to access within the given block and in its inner blocks.
- It allows declaring, initialization and assignment.
- It will not allow shadowing and hoisting.

Ex:
<script>
    "use strict";
    function demo()
    {
       let x;       // declaring
       x = 10;      // assignment
       if(x==10)
       {
          let y = 20; //initializaiton
          document.write("X=" + x  + "<br>" + "Y=" + y);
       }
       
    }
    demo();
</script>

const:
- It configures a block scope variable.
- It allows only initialization.
- It will not allow declaring and assignment.

        const  x;        // invalid
        x = 10;        // invalid

        const x = 10;   // valid
        x = 20;        // invalid

- It will not allow shadowing and hoisting.

Ex:
<script>
    "use strict";
    function demo()
    {
        const x = prompt("Enter Number");
        document.write("x=" + x);
    }
    demo();
</script>


