### ReactJS Notes of 22nd January 2024

- HTML, CSS, JavaScript

React JS

- JavaScript
- Typescript
  2 Projects - MERN

      2 months =  60

JavaScript

- It is light weight JIT compiled and interpretted programming language.
- It is used
  a) Client Side
  b) Server Side
  c) Database
  d) Animation Tools
- JS with HTML
  a) DOM manipulations
  b) BOM Interactions
  c) Style & class Binding
  d) Validations etc..
- Library
  jQuery

Q: What is React ?
A: React is a JavaScript library for building interactive UI for both web & native apps.

    		Web			=> Web Application
    		Native		=> Mobile Application

Q: Is there any difference between React & React JS?
A: There is no difference.

    	React		=> with both typescript & javascript

     Hence it is not required to mention as "React JS".

Q: Why we need React library?

Q: What are the challenges in modern web development?
A:

- Web started in early 1990's. [Tim Berners Lee]
- The recent web is used from smart devices.
- We need Unified UX for apps.
  - Application must have same experience across all devices
  - Mobiles users must get access to everything.
- We need Fluid UX for apps
  - User will stay on one page and can access everything from the page.
  - New details are added to page without reloading the page.
- Loosely coupled and extensible
  - You can develop new features remotely
  - You can plugin the new features into app without re-installing.
  - It should not lead to catastrophic failures.
- Simplified Deployment
  - Single step installation
  - Use installed app without restarting the device.

Q: What is Solution?
A: Better build "SPA" [Single Page Application] & PWA [Progressive Web Application]

Q: How to build SPA & PWA?
A: jQuery, JavaScript, React, Angular, Vue, Backbone JS, Ember JS, Knockout JS etc..
