### Reactjs class notes of 3rd Februrary 2024

Non Primitive Types

- Array
- Object
- JSON

      				  Date Data Type

- Date type is configured using "Date()" constructor
- The date constructor loads default date and time into memory.

        var now = new Date();		// current date & time

- Specific date and time values are stored using following format

      "year-month-day  hrs:min:seconds.milliseconds"

        var departure = new Date("2024-02-22  14:32:56.67");

- To read date and time value you have to all date and time methods

      getHours()
      getMinutes()
      getSeconds()
      getMilliSeconds()
      getDate()
      getDay()
      getMonth()
      getFullYear()
      toString()
      toLocaleDateString()
      toDateString()
      toLocaleTimeString()
      toTimeString()
      etc..

Syntax:
var now = new Date();
{ now.toLocaleDateString() }

- To set any date or time value dynamically

  setHours()
  setMinutes()
  setSeconds()
  setMilliSeconds()
  setDate()
  setMonth()
  setYear()
  etc..

Syntax:
var now = new Date();
now.setMonth(2); // March
Ex:

export function DataBinding(){

    var departure = new Date("2024-02-22 14:56:34.67");
    departure.setMonth(2);
    return(
        <div className="container-fluid">
            <h2>Data Types</h2>
             {departure.toString()}
        </div>
    )

}

    					Regular Expression Type

- A regular expression is used to verify the format of value.
- It is built by using meta characters and quantifiers.
  <input type="text" pattern="">

- Regular expression is enclosed in "/ regExp /"
- To verify regular expression you need "match()" method.
- match() is boolean method that return true if value is matching with regExp.

Syntax:
var regExp = /\+91\d{10}/;
var value = "9876543210";

    	{ (value.match(regExp)) ? "Valid" : "Invalid" }

Summary: Binding various Types

1. Primitive Types
2. Non Primitive Types

Note: Never use variables for storing data in a component.
If you store in variables they will not allow to modify the structure according state
& situation as they are "immutable" type.

    					State for Component
    					----------------------------

- Web applications use "http & https" as protocols.
- Http & Https are state less protocols.
- They use the mechanism "Go-Get-Forget".

      GO		- Establish connection with server
      GET		- Get response from server
      Forget	- Clean up all details from server

- Stateless nature is good for memory management and security.
- However it is not great for contineous operations.
- Hence every web technology uses various state management techniques to remebers information between requests.
- State Management techniques are classified into 2 types
  a) Client Side State Management
  b) Server Side State Management

- Client Side uses client memory for storing data. [browser memory, HDD]
- Server Side uses server memory for storing data.

- React 17+ version introduced "useState()" hook to maintain a state for function components.
- Hook is a service which comprises of pre-defined business logic and data that you implement and use in your component.

      					useState()

- It is a react hook used to configure state for component.
- State is dynamic and mutable.
- It can handle data for your component and make it available accross requests.
- State configured for a component is not accessible to other component.
- State is memory allocated for component and it can handle any type of data
  a) Primitive
  b) Non Primitive

Syntax:
const [getter, setter] = useState();

FAQ's:

1. Why developers use "const" for configuring state?
   A. State must be initialized. Hence const is good for state.
   State once initialized can't be assigned with new memory. Hence const is good.
   You can re-initialize the state to store new values.
   State should not allow shadowing.
   "Const" is block scope.

2. How state can change if it is configure with "const"?
   A. Const allows changing of values when memory is re-initialized for component.

Syntax:
const [name, setName] = useState(defaultValue);

    	const [name, setName] = useState('john');

    	name = "David";			// invalid	- Assignment
    	setName("David");			// valid - Initializing

Syntax:
import { useState } from "react";

    const [name, setName] = useState('John');

    <p> { name }  </p>

Ex:
import { useState } from "react";

export function DataBinding(){

    const [categories, setCategories] = useState(["All", "Electornics", "Footwear"]);


    return(
        <div className="container-fluid">
            <h2>Data Types</h2>
            {
                categories.map(category=><li key={category}> {category} </li>)
            }
        </div>
    )

}
