### Class Notes of 23rd January 2024

Summary:

- What is react?
- What is purpose of React?
- What are the challenges in modern web development?
- What is solution?

How to build SPA?

- HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, React, Angular, Vue, Ember, Knockout JS, Backbone JS etc..

FAQ: Can we build SPA using JavaScript & jQuery?
Ans: Yes.

FAQ: What are the issues with JavaScript & jQuery?
Ans:

- JavaScript is a language & jQuery is library
- They require lot of DOM methods.
- Lot of coding
- Lot of reference
- Lot of Ajax explicitly

FAQ: What is the advantage of using React & Angular like technologies?
Ans:

- React is a library and Angular is a framework
- React can build UI for web and native apps.
- Angular can build and control the apps.

FAQ: What is difference between React & Angular? Where we use them?
Ans:

- If your application is using rich backend with various frameworks controlling backend then you can choose "React" for building interactive User Interfaces.

- If your backend is light weight and application requires various front-end functionalities to manage along with app flow then you can choose "Angular".

      		Angular	=> Google
      		React	=> Facebook

Features of React:

1. React is a library
   - Write Less and Do more
   - Pre-defined business logic
   - Reusability
   - Separation
   - Testability
   - Extensibility
   - Mantainability
2. React uses Virtual DOM

Q: What is DOM?
A: DOM is a hierarchy of elements in browser.

Q: What is shadow DOM?
A: It is a hiearachy of elements in a component. HTML can have various built in components like radio, checkbox, textarea, email, number, range, date etc..

Q. What is virtual DOM?
A. It is a copy of actual DOM in memory.
