### ReactJS Notes of 29th January 2024

Creating a React Application using Bundler:

- Bundler is a tool used in web development for configuring an application.
- It can bundle your assets, images, scripts and other resources.
- It can configure an application with resource mapping that improves performace of application.
- There are various bundling tools like
  a) Web Pack
  https://webpack.js.org/
  b) Parcel
  https://parceljs.org/
  c) Vite
  https://vitejs.dev/

- NPX [ Node Package Manager Extention ] provides Webpack as default bundler to create a complete React application.

1.  Open any location on your PC from command prompt [CLI]

        e:\>

2.  Run the following command

        e:\>npx  create-react-app   appName [shopping-react]

    - It uses "webpack" as bundler and set up your project for "React" with all required
      libraries and configuration.
    - It is a template for "React App".

3.  Open your project folder from "VS Code" editor

        e:\shopping-react

4.  React 18 application file system comprises of

    ## File / Folder Description

    node_modules It comprises of all library files installed with NPM.
    [react, react-dom, babel..]

    public It comprises of static resources like
    images, html, docx, .pdf, .txt, .mp3, .mp4..

    src It comprises of dynamic resources like
    .js, .jsx, .ts, .tsx, .css, .scss ..

    .gitignore It is used to configure the resources to be ignored while
    publishing on GIT.

    package.json It comprises of project meta data.
    It can configure batch operations.
    package.lock.json It comprises of meta data related to every library installed
    in project.

    readme.md It is help documentation provided by developers.

Note: React template provides following batch operations

```
		>npm start			to run your react app
		>npm build			to build for production
		>npm test			to test using "JEST" framework
		>npm eject			to unplug from default port assigned for application.

	Your react application runs on  "http://localhost:3000"
```

React 18x Render method for Virtual DOM:

```
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(
<React.Strict>
<App />
</React.Strict>
)
```

React upto 17 Render method for Virtual DOM:

```
    ReactDOM.render(
    	<React.Strict>
    		<App />
    	</React.Strict>, document.getElementById("root")
    	)
```
