### Class Notes of 9th November 2023

### JavaScript

JavaScript

- JavaScript is light weight interpretted and JIT [Just-in-Time] compiled programming language.

Explaination:

- Light weight defines that it occupies less memory space.
- Interpretted defines that it is translated line by line.
- Compiled defines that it translates all lines in program simultaneously at the same time.
- There are 2 types of compiling techniques

        a) JIT [Just-in-Time]
        b) AOT [Ahead-of-Time]

- JIT compiles the code in browser.
- AOT compiles the code at application level. It allows to render faster.

- JavaScript is a language that supports various programming approaches like
  a) functional
  b) structural
  c) imperative
  d) object based
  e) object oriented etc..

  Note: JavaScript is not an OOP language.

- JavaScript is a language, which is used

  a) Client Side [HTML]
  b) Server Side [Node JS, Express JS]
  c) In Database [MongoDB]
  d) In Animations etc.. [Flash, Action Script]

FAQ: What is the role of JavaScript Client Side?
Ans:

- JavaScript is used client side to reduce burden on server.
- It reduces burden by managing iteractions client side.
- JavaScript is used client side for

       a) BOM [Browser Object Model] Interactions
       b) DOM [Document Object Model] Manipulations
       c) Validations etc..

- BOM Includes
  a) location
  b) history
  c) navigator
  d) document etc..
- DOM Includes
  a) Data Binding
  b) Style Binding
  c) Class Binding
  d) Model Binding
  e) Adding and Removing elements from DOM etc..
- Validations ensure that contradictionary and unauthorized data is not get stored into database.

Evolution of JavaScript:

- In early 1970's CERN labs designed a script language called ECMA Script for Network.
- ECMA Script is used in Internet applications.
- Mosaic is the first browser used for Internet, which used ECMA Script for client side interactions.
- In early 1995 "Netscape Communications" introduced a browser called "Netscape Communicator".
- Netscape appointed "Brendan Eich" to design a script for their browser.
- Brendan Eich designed a script by name "Mocha".
- Later Mocha renamed to "Live Script".
- Sun micro system took responsibility of maintaining Live Script and named it as
  "JavaScript".
