### Class Notes 17th November 2023

### Variables and Data Types

Summary:
Variable Declaration
Assignment
Initialization
Var
Let
Const
Shadowing
Hoisting

Variable Naming:
- Variable name must start with an alphabet.
- You can start with "_"  but not recommended to use special characters.
- It can have alpha numeric name.
- It can't be a keyword.
       
        var sales2023;        // valid
        var 2023Sales;        // invalid
        var _2023;            // valid
        var for;                // invalid
        var class;                // invalid

- It can be max 255 chars long. [ECMA]
- It must speak what it is.

        var userName;
        var userAge;

Global Scope for Variable:

- It refers to variable, which is accessible to all functions.
- To make a variable global in scope, you have to declare or initialize at module level.

    <script>                    index.js
        //module                //module

    </script>

- You can declare  or initialize global variables using var, let and const.

Ex:
<script>
   //module
   var x = 10;
   let y = 20;
   const z = 30;
   function f1()
   {
    document.write("Function-1 <br> x=" + x + "<br>y=" + y + "<br>z=" + z + "<br>");    
   }
   function f2()
   {
    document.write("Function-2 <br> x=" + x + "<br>y=" + y + "<br>z=" + z);  
   }
   f1();
   f2();
</script>

FAQ: Can we define a variable in function and make it global in access?
Ans: Yes. If you are using Javascript with BOM you can configure a global variable inside function using "window" object.

Ex:
<script>
   "use strict";
   var x = 10;
   let y = 20;
   const z = 30;
   function f1()
   {
    window.a = 200;
    document.write("Function-1 <br> x=" + x + "<br>y=" + y + "<br>z=" + z + "<br>a=" + a + "<br>");    
   }
   function f2()
   {
    document.write("Function-2 <br> x=" + x + "<br>y=" + y + "<br>z=" + z + "<br>a=" + a + "<br>");    
   }
   f1();
   f2();
</script>

FAQ: What is the result of given declaration syntax?
        var x = y = 20;

      x = ?
      y = ?

Ans:  x = 20
     y = 20

FAQ:  What is the result of

        var x, y=20;

        x = ?
        y = ?

Ans:    x=undefined
       y=20


FAQ: What is the result of

        const x, y=20;
   
Ans:  x must be initialized. Error


FAQ:  What is the result of
        const x=10; y=20;

Ans:  If it is in strict mode then y is not defined.
     It it is not in strict mode.

        x= 10;
        y = 20;

FAQ: What is destructuring in declarations?
Ans : It is the process of configuring a set of values into a set of variables.

       var [x, y, z] = [10,20,30];
       var [x, y, z] = [10, 20];

Ex:
<script>
     "use strict";
      const [x, y] = [20, 40];
     document.write("x=" + x  + "<br>y=" + y);
</script>

                    JavaScript Data Types

- Data Type refers to the data structure.
- It specifies the type and range of value that can be stored in memory.
- JavaScript is not strongly typed, It is implicitly typed.

        var x = 10;        x is number
        x = "John";        x is string

- JavaScript data types are classified into 2

    a) Primitive Types
    b) Non Primitive Types

Primitive Data Types:
- They are immutable types.
- They have fixed range for values.
- The structure can't change.
- They are stored in memory stack.
- Stack uses LIFO. [Last-in-First-Out]
- JavaScript Primitive Data types are

    1. Number
    2. String
    3. Boolean
    4. Null
    5. Undefined
    6. Symbol
    7. Bigint

                            Number Type
- JavaScript Number Type includes
   
        Signed Integer        - 10
        Unsigned Integer          10
        Floating Point            45.34    
        Double                350.53
        Decimal                 2349.33  [29 decimal places]
        Bigint                999383838n
        Exponent                2e3 [2000]   2 x 10(3)
        Hexa Decimal            0f
        Octa                    0o495
        Binary                0b1010  [10]

- Every input in DOM is a string.
- JavaScript requires "parsing" methods [convertion] to convert a numeric string into number.
- It refers to number enclosed in quotes.
- The parsing methods are
    a) parseInt()
    b) parseFloat()

Ex:
<script>
       var age = parseInt(prompt("Enter Age"));
       document.write("You will be " + (age + 1) + " next year.");
</script>


FAQ:  parseInt("10") + parseInt("30");
Ans :  40

FAQ:  parseInt("10") + parseInt("40AB");
Ans:   50    

FAQ: parseInt("10") + parseInt("AB40");
Ans:  NaN


