### Class Notes 11th Octoober 2023

Form Attributes
1. id
2. name
3. class
4. method

FAQ: Where the data is present when form is submitted on GET request?
Ans:  Query String

FAQ: Where the data is present when form is submitted on POST request?
Ans:  Form Body

FAQ: What is the advantage of posting data on GET request?
Ans:  It saves round trips.

FAQ: How GET will save round trip?
Ans: By caching the data.

FAQ: What is round trip?
Ans:  It is the process of communicating with server everytime when client requests data.

5. action    :  It defines the target page where data is submitted. It is usually a server side
           page. It is often required when submitting data to server.

Syntax:
    <form method="post"  action="page.jsp | php | asp..">

6. novalidate : It is used to disable the default HTML validations.
            Every validation of HTML is not according to various client requirements,
            hence we have to disable default validation and define custom validation.

Syntax:
    <form method="post"  novalidate>


FAQ: Can we define multiple forms in a page?
Ans:  Yes.

FAQ: Can we define nested forms in page?
        <form>
            parent
            <form>
               child
            </form>
        </form>
Ans:  No. You can design pseudo nested forms using AJAX.

Form Elements
                        --------------------
- Form comprises of various types of elements like buttons, textbox, checkbox, radio, listbox, dropdown etc.
- HTML provides different types of tokens for creating form elements, like
        <input>
        <select>
        <option>
        <optgroup>
        <textarea>
        <meter>
        <progress> etc..

Note: <input> is an HTML form element that allows to input various types of values.
      HTML 5 introduced several new data types to restrict input.

                             Text Box
- It is an input element used to manage string.
- String is a literal with group of characters. [alpha numeric and special chars]
- It allows user to view, edit and input value.
- The attribute "type" is used to change the input type.

Syntax:
    <input type="text">            => string input

Attributes:
1. Id                ]
2. name            ]   used to refer textbox in css and javascript
3. class            ]

Note: Every element in form must have "name" attribute.
      If name is not defined for any element in form, then the value of element is not
      submitted to server.

4. value            : It defines the default value to display in textbox.

Syntax:
    <input type="text" name="UserName"  value="John">

5. readonly        : It will not allow to modify the value in textbox.
                  It will not allow to input a value if textbox is empty.
                  It can submit the value.

Syntax:
    <input type="text"  name="UserName"  value="John" readonly>
    <input name="UserName" readonly  value="David"  type="text">


6. disabled        : It will not allows to modify and submit a value.

Syntax:
    <input type="text" name="UserName"  value="John" disabled>


7. placeholder        : It defines the watermark text to display in textbox before any value
                  is entered.

Syntax:
    <input type="text"  name="Mobile"  placeholder="eg: +91 and 10 digits">

8. autofocus        : It sets focus to element automatically on page load.

Syntax:
    <input type="text"  name="Mobile" autofocus>

9. size            :  It defines the width of textbox. It is not limit.

Syntax:
    <input type="text"  name="OTP"  size="4">

10. maxlength        : It sets restriction for maximum number of characters.

Syntax:
    <input type="text" name="OTP" size="4" maxlength="4">

11. minlength        : It sets validation for minimum number of characters.

Syntax:
    <input type="text" name="OTP" minlength="2" maxlength="4">

12. required        : It will not allow to submit empty. It is used for mandatory fields.

Syntax:
    <input type="text"  name="OTP" required minlength="4" maxlength="4">

Note: If input element is defined with multiple validations, then the first priority is for "required".

13. list            : It is used to attach a data list to input element.
                  The data list is a form element used for auto complete text.
                  Form data list is configured with
                    <datalist>
                    <option>
Syntax:
    <input type="text"  name="search"  list="terms" size="40">
    <datalist id="terms">
      <option> Term-1 </option>
      <option> Term-2 </option>
    </datalist>

