### CLass Notes 14th September 2023

### Browser Engine

Browser Architecture
- Browser is a software tool used by users to access and view the websites or applications.
- There are various browsers:
        1. Safari
        2. Chrome
        3. Edge
        4. FireFox
        5. Opera etc..

Browser Components:

1. User Interface
 - It defines the interface that user uses for interaction.
 - It comprises of various elements
    a) Title Bar
    b) Menu Bar
    c) Shortcut Buttons
    d) Address Bar
    e) Workspace  etc..

2. Browser Engine
- It is used to translate HTML & CSS.
- It converts HTML & CSS into understandable format of browser.
- Every browser have its own engine like:
        Chrome    => V8, Blink
        Safari    => Webkit
        FireFox    => Gecko, SpiderMonkey
        Edge    => Chakra, Chromium

3. JavaScript Interpreter
- It is responsible for translating JavaScript.
- Interpreter can translate line by line of program.

4. Rendering Engine
- It is responsible for presenting output on screen.
- It renders the output and displays in browser workspace.

5. Networking
- It is a browser extention tool that track the performance of page while loading.
- It identifies the following
    a) Number of Requests Made
    b) Number of bytes transfered
    c) Time taken to load the resources etc..

6. Backend
- It is the logic that runs in browser to handle the UI in browser.
- It can control the browser interactions.
- It comprises of browser logic.

7. Data Persistence
- It is browser storage.
- A browser can store client related details and it can be temporary or permanent storage.
- Browser storage comprises of
    a) Session Storage
    b) Local Storage
    c) Cookies etc..


                                 HTML
- Hyper Text Markup Language
- Hyper mean "Beyond"                    
- Hyper Text is the text that takes user beyond what he can see.
- The term markup refers to presentation.
- You markup your content to present according to requirements.
- A Markup language is a presentation language.
- HTML is not a programming language, it is a presentation language.
- HTML target is to present content on browser.

Evolution of HTML:
- CERN Labs introduced a language for Mosaic browser called GML.
   [Generic Markup Language]
- GML extended with SGML [Standard Generic Markup Language].
- In early 1990's "Tim Berners Lee" introduced "HTML".
- IETF [Internet Engineering Task Force] developed HTML upto the version 3.4
- In early 2004  WHATWG [Web Hypertext Application Technology Work Group]
  took the responsibility of HTML and they are evolving HTML till date.
- WHATWG designed 2 versions of HTML
        HTML - 4            2004
        HTML - 5 [Latest]  2014

                             HTML Parsing