### Class Notes 6th September 2023

### HTML Page Structure

HTML Page Structure:
1. HTML static page can have extention
        .html,  .htm

2. Every HTML document starts with "Document Declaration" from HTML 5 version onwards.

        <!DOCTYPE html>            
 
  - Declaration comprises of information about version and document type.
           
             DOCTYPE    : refers to 5 version
            html            : refers document type as "html"


3. Every HTML document have a scope of document, which is defined by using

            <html>

            </html>

4. Every Document scope must define language type for content in document.

            <html  lang="en-in">

            </html>

     "lang" is an attribute for <html> token.

Syntax:
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en-in">

    </html>

4. Every HTML document comprises of 2 sections at high level.

    a) <head>
    b) <body>

Head:
- It configures the content that is stored in memory and later delivered to browser workspace.
- It enables reusability of content.
- Typically every HTML head section comprises of following elements.

    1. title        <title>
    2. link        <link>
    3. meta        <meta>
    4. base        <base>
    5. script        <script>
    6. style        <style>

Title:
- Title defines the title to display in browser titlebar.
- Title is used for bookmarking the page.
- Title is used in SEO. [Search Engine Optimization]

Syntax:
    <!doctype html>
    <html lang="en-in">
    <head>
        <title> Shopping - Online </title>
    </head>
    </html>

Link:
- It is used to link any external document to current page.
- Link can configure external documents like stylesheets and short cut icons.

Setup shortcut icon for page
1. Shortcut icon must have extention ".ico"
2. Shortcut icon size can be between
    16 x 16 pxiels  to 32 x 32 pixels

3. Open Mspaint => File menu => Image Properties => size  32x32

4. Draw and save your image into project physical path
        D:\online-shopping\public\images\favicon.png
        [rename favicon into favicon.ico]

5. Link to your webpage

    <head>
        <title> Shopping </title>
        <link rel="shortcut icon" href="public/images/favicon.ico">
    </head>


      