### Class Notes 13th September 2023

### Setup Website

Creating a new Web Project:
- Website is a virtual directory on web server that provides access to resources.
- Every website is technically a "folder" on server.

1. Open any location on your PC [File Explorer]  "win+e"

        D:\online-shopping

2. Open Visual Studio Code Editor

3. Go to File Menu => Open Folder => D:\online-shopping

4. Open Terminal in VS Code  [ Ctrl + ` ]

        Terminal Menu => New Terminal

5. Change your terminal from Power Shell to Command Prompt

6. Run the following command in terminal

        >npm  init  -y

    It will generate a file called "package.json" and add to current project.

    - package.json [JavaScript Object Notation] comprises of "meta data".
    - Meta data is information about your project.
    - It includes details like
        Project Name
        Project Version
        Copyrights
        Dependencies
        Author etc..

7. Add following folders into project

        a) public
        b) src

    public        : It comprises of all static resources, like
                - images
                - text docs
                - pdf docs
                - ppts
                - audio & video etc..

   src            : It comprises of all dynamic resources, like
                - JavaScript Files [.js]
                - TypeScript Files [.ts]
                - CSS Files [.css]
                - Sass Files [.scss]
                - .jsp, php, aspx etc..

8. Select "public" folder and add the following child folders

        a) images    => banner.jpg
        b) docs        => tutorial.pdf
        c) videos

Note: Every website comprises of 2 paths
        a) Physical Path
        b) Virtual Path

      Physical Path        :  D:\online-shopping
      Virtual Path            :  http://127.0.0.1:5500

9. Click "Go Live" in the status of Visual Studio Code.

10. Every website starts with "index.html" page.

    - Add a new file into project root folder by name "index.htm"
    - Add text content into file
           
            "Welcome to Online Shopping"

    - Refresh the page in browser

            http://127.0.0.1:5500    (or)  http://localhost:5500

    - You can request any resource from address bar directly

      http://127.0.0.1:5500/public/images/banner.jpg

What is a Web Page?
- It is a hyper text document that provides an interface from where user can interact with the resources in website.
- The term "Hyper" means "Beyond".
- A hyper text document comprises of information, which is beyond what it shows to user.

                            HTML